---
layout: post
title: Thoughts on the new Nexus devices
date: '2014-10-19 06:41:29'
---

Google announced some new Nexus devices for this year, the Nexus 6, 9, and the Player. As a Nexus 5 user and a longtime Android and iOS user, I was really interested in what Google is releasing year as a competitior to the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus. After reading the announcements, I felt really uncertain about the devices.

First, the Nexus 6. My first impression after seeing the design and the specs is that the screen is really too big. While the iPhone 6 Plus is gigantic, this phone is even bigger, coming at 6". I've seen the 6 Plus and a Note 3 in real life and I really cannot imagine using this would be a really comfortable experience as you can not use it in one hand. Other than that, I also think that while the battery boost over the Moto X is going to be helpful, I don't think it would be enough. THe move from 1080p to QHD along with the bigger screen size is really going to increase the power draw significantly. While poor battery life has always been poor on Nexus phones, I really did hope that this year would be something different. Everything else seems fairly solid but since it is based on the Moto X and looks very similar to it, I would like to see more customization options, especially the wooden one as I'm a sucker for wood stuff. It also doesn't help that the price increased from last year's Nexus 5 to 650 USD, which is even more than the Moto X (500 USD unlocked).

The Nexus 9 in a sense, is similar to the Nexus 6, in that it is odd. I can understand the 7, 8 and 10 inch tablet, but 9 inch seems like a really weird option. The 8 inch seems like a pretty good sweet spot if you want a smaller tablet and the 10 inch works just fine if you want it to be larger. The 9 inch seems to occupy a middle spot, one where no one really wants. That aside, the spec itself seems to be very nice, being one of the first Tegra K1 tablets and built by HTC. However, I also don't really see a reason to get it over the Nvidia Shield Tablet except if using custom roms and kernels is very important to you. Otherwise, the nvidia shield tablet seems to be better in every other way as it is cheaper, a more standard 8" screen size, and allows for expansion storage. Simply because of the existence of the Shield Tablet, I really wouldn't buy the Nexus 9 at all, at least not for $100 more and a weird size.

Nexus Player looks the most interesting of the bunch. It's a Android TV product sold by Google itself and for $99, which is the price of the competing products. I am interested to see what it can deliver and what apps will become developed for it to determine whether or not it will be useful. If it does what the Chromecast does and some more with a good UI, it does make a compelling alternative to the Apple TV and the Roku.

Overall, I really feel letdown by this new lineup for the 2014-2015 year. The Nexus 6 and Nexus 9 seem like something that really doesn't have much of a place in the current device ecosystem right now. Except for a very specific niche, I really don't see these devices becoming popular, at least more popular than the Nexus 5 and Nexus 7 but instead become more like the Nexus 10 - forgotten and relatively unknown.